Due to advancement in the transmission of large non-binary data wirelessly, we need a suitable coding technique. The Message Passing (MP) algorithm for Low-Density Parity Check (LDPC) codes and Vector Symbol Decoding (VSD) as verification based decoding technique are powerful decoding technique. Verification-based decoding allows for simple packet level encoding and decoding algorithms. LDPC codes have received increased attention over recent years and are already equipped with efficient soft-decision encoding and decoding. However, for large non-binary symbols, soft-decision decoding is too complex for practical use. A less complex decoding is a hard decision message passing (hMP) algorithm.

The concatenation of hMP and VSD, called hMP-VSD algorithm, reduces the complexity for LDPC codes with large non-binary symbols. Systematic LDPC codes are chosen for practical purpose. They are generated by performing row operation on the randomly generated non-systematic LDPC codes. Results show that systematic codes can perform better than the non-systematic codes with large error symbols and the effects of weight on the performance of decoding algorithm. hMP-VSD algorithm can be used with low cost computer architecture shown by experimental results.
 
The transmission of systematic LDPC codes with large symbol size under different channel conditions has been done by using the Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT). hMP-VSD is used as the decoder which decodes and corrects the errors detected in the transmitted data. Image data is used for encoding, transmitting and decoding. Both encoder and decoder are implemented on the Raspberry pi (R-pi) board and the transmission is done by using the Wi-Fi module. Encoded and Decoded images are shown to easily visualize the results.
